hi everyone welcome to signals and systems course
in this video I am going to explain continuous time fourier transform
in fourier series representation a continuous time periodic signal can be represented as linear combination of complex exponentials that are harmonically related
we can develop a similar representation also for continuous time non periodic or aperiodic signals and this representation is called continuous time fourier transform
while developing continuous time fourier transform of non periodic signals
we are going to follow the given strategy
we first start with a non periodic signal
then we convert this non periodic signal into a periodic signal by periodically repeating the signal for some period t
this gives us the periodic signal shown in the figure and it is denoted by x tilda of t
note that if the period t goes to infinity the periodic signal x tilda of t will be equal to the non periodic signal x of t
roughly you can think of the fourier transform as the fourier series representation of a periodic signal
which has an infinite period
in the upcoming slides we will see how this infinite period effects the synthesis and analysis equations of fourier series representation
ok let's go back to our square wave example
this figure shows a periodic square wave
we can compute the fourier series coefficients as given here
an alternative way of interpreting this equation is as samples of an envelope function
if omega is thought as a continuous variable the envelope of t times a sub k is shown in the figure
the bars in the figure correspond to the fourier series coefficients and they are separated by two pie over t
in the figure on the right hand side we increase the period more and this results closer sample spacing
if we increase the period further the spacing will decrease more
and if the period goes to infinity the samples or the fourier series coefficients will approach the envelope function
let's move on to the mathematical formulation of continuous time fourier transform
from our previous discussion we know that x tilda of t is the periodic version of the non periodic signal x of t and it is periodic with period t
so we can write down fourier series representation of x tilda of t and its fourier series coefficients as given here
since x tilda of t equals x of t as t goes to infinity analysis and synthesis equations turn into the fourier transform pair
the first equation is called the inverse fourier transform equation and capital x is referred to as the fourier transform of x of t
if x of t has finite energy in other words if x of t is square integrable then we are guaranteed that its fourier transform is finite
additionally the given set of dirichlet conditions also ensures the convergence
we can also develop fourier transform representations for periodic signals
this allows us to consider both periodic and non periodic signals within a unified framework
the fourier transform of a periodic signal is given below which contains a train of impulses in the frequency domain
these impulses are equally spaced in frequency and the areas of the impulses are proportional to the fourier series coefficients
in this video I have explained continuous time fourier transform
let me know if you have any questions
thank you